# no laptop

## what it feels like live off my phone

### _no_ laptop

For the past 2 months, I've been out travelling quite a bit
with a mix of time off, and work related offsites.
This has left me living out of my bag.
As I like to fly carry-on only,
I don't pack much:
a few sets of clothes, a toothbrush, a shaver, my phone, headphones,
and for work trips: my work laptop.
Notably missing is my [personal laptop](https://frame.work/gb/en/laptop13),
and in between all that flying around,
I discovered the "D" key was broken,
and a botched attempt at replacing the keyboard
meant an even longer wait for a replacement
[Input Cover](https://frame.work/products/input-cover-kit?v=FRANHC0001).

Without a laptop,
my personal computing devices amount to my phone,
a Google [Pixel 8 Pro](https://blog.google/products/pixel/google-pixel-8-pro/),
and a Google [Pixel Tablet](https://store.google.com/intl/en/ideas/articles/new-google-pixel-tablet/)
I got for free somewhere.

First: no keyboard, and barely a working terminal
meant I more or less couldn't do any coding.
Not coding isn't too bad,
but a lot of the tools I've written for myself can really only be accessed through a terminal,
including updating this site.
So a lot of that went on hold.

I think general purpose tasks felt more difficult too,
on mobile, switching constantly between multiple applications or even browser tabs is a pain.
For example, I had a list of topics to research in one app,
researched in the web browser,
and wrote down / pasted results in a third app.
Something trivial with my laptop and instant context switching with a keyboard shortcut
felt like quite the slog.
Not to mention,
responsive / mobile sites aren't designed for showing a lot of information,
and selecting text is.... hard, though Google Lens does make it possible.

My final main activity is entertainment,
or more specifically, watching videos.
File management on mobile devices is not great,
including renaming a bunch of files.
I also watch quite a bit on Youtube at 2x speed.
On my phone, it's ok,
but on the tablet, video playback is choppy,
and the bluetooth audio flaky...
It certainly shows that it's not a top of the range processor.
I'm considering getting a foldable next time...
