# logging in

## so many ways to authenticate

### _logging_ in

A quick walk through the different dances you do to log in.
We assume you somehow already have an account on the target system.

- _just a secret_. This might be the simplest form.
  A globally unique secret string.
  Sometimes known as an API key,
  or for more human facing systsms, an access code.
  It's easy to implement (just a giant lookup table),
  but it's hard for humans to remember.
- _split refresh and access token_.
  If you think your access token might be leaked elsewhere,
  or if you embed validity into your access tokens,
  you can make them shorter lived,
  and only do full refreshes less frequently with a refresh token.
- _split username and password_.
  We split the globally unique part (username) to be not as secret (and therefore more memorable).
  Since the secret does not need to be globally unique, it can also be more memorable.
  - _email as username_.
    If you're going to need emails for account recovery anyway,
    might as well make it your username, and not force users to come up with a new one.
  - _[XKCD 936](https://xkcd.com/936/) correct horse battery staple_.
    A human memorization strategy for creating and memorizing more unique passwords.
  - _password managers_.
    A client side mitigation for the fact that humans aren't all that good
    at creating and memorizing so many unique combinations of usernames and passwords.
- _multi step validation_.
  Turns out humans aren't all that good at coming up with unique secrets,
  and the servers storing them sometimes get hacked.
  So we tack on some more interactive flows
  that hopefully demonstrate that you posses something more than just easily stolen secrets.
  Sometimes, the password part is skipped and you go straight to proof.
  - _Emergency access codes_.
    Like passwords, but one time use.
    Since they're not reused or frequently accessed,
    hopefully they've not been stored anywhere where they could be leaked.
  - _TOTP_.
    Prove you can derive a time limited code from a secret given to you on registration.
    Because the actual secret is never retrieved, it's less likely to leak.
  - _SMS_.
    Prove you still have access to a phone number and can receive texts with a code.
  - _Mobile App / Other logged in session_.
    Approve of the log in from another trusted session.
  - _WebAuthN / Fido2_
    Prove you control a hardware key that can sign requests.
    The same secret is used to sign all requests.
    The browser ensures requests are domain bound.
  - _Email_.
    Prove you still have access to the email address by entering a code you get in email.
  - _Password recovery link_
    Prove you still have access to the email address.
    Like emailing an auth code, but more convoluted.
- _Signed challenge response_
  Almost everything above (except webauthn) is vulnerable to a human taking the secret
  and entering it into a phishing site,
  Password managers can mitigate this to a degree, but it't not foolproof,
  especially with multi platform apps (web, mobile, native app...).
  The secrets may also be intercepted in transit.
  The following are complex enough that they must be implemented by computers.
  - _mTLS_.
    Difficult to manage, but gives you a secured channel.
  - _ssh keys_.
    Like mTLS, but for ye olden days before the web.
  - _signed requests (AWS Sigv4)_.
    Each request is signed.
    The secret is never in transit, and the request can't be modified.
  - _passkeys_.
    A lot like webauthn / fido2, but a username and unique key are stored per site.
    It's unphishable:
    secret is never in transit, too hard for human to retrieve, browser passes in domain.
- _Magic sign in link_.
  Why bother with passwords and an emailed code,
  as long as you have access to email, then you can get a one time log in link.
- _Single sign on: OIDC / SAML / Social log ins_
  Why deal with all the account management things
  and instead just offload it all to a third party.
  Use a (maybe) standard protocol and you get a verified identity and maybe some metadata as well.
